Added ⚡ content to `Payments` > `Requesting` page (#611)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/payments/request.md

---

<!--

Illustration source

- https://www.figma.com/file/qr4P17z6WSPADm6oW0cKw2/?node-id=337%3A2159

-->

# Requesting bitcoin

To request bitcoin, the receiver must provide the sender with a payment request. Several payment request formats are available, both with Bitcoin and Lightning, each having its unique use cases and trade-offs. Payment requests can be single-use or reusable. This page covers the design considerations around generating, presenting, and sharing payment requests as well as receiving bitcoin.

## Requesting entry points

When a user needs to request bitcoin, there are several ways in which this can be initiated including:

- Generating single-use payment requests
- Using reusable payment requests
- Importing a withdraw request

Below is an overview of these various entry points:

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/Home.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/Home@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Home screens can provide quick access to entering request flows."
   alt-text = "Screen showing home screen number pad entry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer: Considering Lighting also has addresses (via "Lightning addresses"), I don't think we should use the terms "Invoice" and "Address" to differentiate between Lightning and on-chain in the tabs in these screens.

Also don't think it's useful to show the invoice code ("lnbc1..."), pretty much gibberish to 99.99% of people.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-invoice.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-invoice@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Single-use payment requests, like invoices, are useful for in-person payments."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single-use invoice."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-contact-card.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-contact-card@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Reusable payment requests, like Lightning addresses, are useful for receiving recurring payments."
   alt-text = "Screen showing reusable Lightning address."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A withdraw request is another way a user can request bitcoin."
   alt-text = "Screen showing withdraw request UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## Single-use payment requests

> The most common way bitcoin is requested today is in the form of single-use payment requests. For Lightning, a standard [BOLT11](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/11-payment-encoding.md) invoice is used. For on-chain, [addresses of various types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}) are used. Addresses can be reused though this is not advised due to privacy concerns. single-use invoices and addresses need to be easily and conveniently generated within a wallet application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most common way bitcoin is requested today is in the form of single-use payment requests. For Lightning, a standard [BOLT11](https://github.com/lightning/bolts/blob/master/11-payment-encoding.md) invoice is used. For on-chain, [addresses of various types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}) are used. Addresses can be reused though this is not advised due to [privacy concerns]({{ "/guide/payments/privacy/#generate-a-new-address-for-each-payment" | relative_url }}). Single-use invoices and addresses need to be easily and conveniently generated within a wallet application.
```

### Amount

> When generating a single-use payment request, users need to be able to add an amount to be paid.  Entering an amount from the home screen can speed up the requesting flow. Alternatively, users can add an amount to an already generated payment request. Entering an amount needs to be clear to prevent users entering incorrect amounts.

Reviewer 2: Who is the user here? Receiver/Sender? It's may not be clear entirely who's who to someone reading this.

Author: Good point, will update!

Amount units need to be toggleable between bitcoin, satoshi and local currency values as senders may request in a set unit. Ensure the unit being entered is prominent to prevent entering of the wrong unit amount. More on the [Units & Symbols page]({{ "/guide/payments/units-and-symbols/" | relative_url }}).

### Address types

> There are several address types that can be used for on-chain transfer requests. Each address type has unique benefits, such as SegWit saving on network fees. Supporting every address type makes a wallet more interoperable and lets users access the benefits offered by each type. More on [address types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}) page.

Reviewer 2: For some reason, the images on the preview are broken on that link, does not appear broken on the main site. Could be netlify preview or we broke something?
![Screenshot 2022-01-05 at 18 10 57](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/36959754/148260015-7f24387e-60f5-4a08-aec8-bffb1f1840e0.png)

Author: Didn't realize those were part of the receive image folder when I cleared it, will re-add them!

### Meta data

> A payment request with only standard data like an amount and date communicates little to both parties about what the payment was for. Users should have the option to attach a note for record keeping and/or for the sender to read. Adding tags, labels and any other metadata that may be relevant to give more context to the payment is also beneficial.

Reviewer 2: Simplifying the first sentence a bit. Also removed `and/or, personally it kills the readability for me, but if you like it, feel free to keep it.

```suggestion
A payment request with only standard data like an amount and date communicates little to both parties about the payment. Users should have the option to attach a note for record-keeping and for the sender to read. Adding tags, labels and any other metadata that may be relevant to give more context to the payment is also beneficial.
```

#### Invoice expirations

> A piece of meta data unique to invoices is an expiration time. This is how long until a single-use invoice expires. By default this is 60 minutes. When an invoice is generated an expiration timer needs to be shown to users alongside the payment request. Advanced users may want the ability to adjust this expiration time for different use cases.

Reviewer 2: Personally, I understand what you meant here, but a reader may be confused a bit why `invoice` terminology is all of a sudden used when you talked about `payment request`. In context of single-use payment requests there's no timer for an on-chain, so I'm not sure how relevant this section is.

Reviewer 3: I don’t believe the LN spec defaults to 60 minutes so this could be more accurately stated, I think.

Author: It's mentioned what an invoice is in the first paragraph of the Single-use payment requests section. I can try address it in another way but I think discussing expiration times is important a touched in the [slack discussion](https://bitcoindesign.slack.com/archives/C015856BDME/p1641858282015200) we had the other day.

%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A newly generated single-use address."
   alt-text = "Screen showing newly generated single-use address"
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-settings.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-settings@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Let users configure the settings of the single-use address."
   alt-text = "Screen showing newly generated single-use address settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-type.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-type@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Supporting every address type benefits users and makes your wallet more interoperable."
   alt-text = "Screen showing different address types."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## Reusable payment requests

> Reusable payment requests aren’t as widely adopted or used as their single-use counterparts. For some use cases, reusable payment requests offer an improved user experience, more flexibility, and enable unique use cases compared to single-use payment requests. Reusable payment requests avoid users having to manually initiate a payment request each time they need to receive bitcoin, greatly simplifying payment flows.

Reviewer 2: Minor simplification.
```suggestion
Reusable payment requests aren’t as widely adopted or used as their single-use counterparts. For some use cases, reusable payment requests offer an improved user experience, more flexibility, and enable unique use cases compared to single-use payment requests. Reusable payment requests prevent users from manually initiating a payment request each time they need to receive bitcoin, greatly simplifying payment flows.
```

> Reusable payment requests are common when making Lightning payments. They are made more frequently so having to manually generate a payment request for each payment adds a lot of friction.

Reviewer 2: Minor simplification. 
```suggestion
Reusable payment requests are common when making Lightning payments. They are made more frequently, so manually generating a payment request for each payment adds a lot of friction.
```

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/Home.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/Home@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Users should be able to access their contacts and reusable payment requests from their home screen."
   alt-text = "Screen showing home screen number pad entry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-list.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-list@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Contact lists are great for storing and managing reusable payment requests."
   alt-text = "Screen showing contact list."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-contact-card-empty.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-contact-card-empty@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A users contact card is a great place to create a reusable payment request."
   alt-text = "Screen showing the users contact card."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> 

Author: Good points, completely agree I will update this to reflect your suggestion. When / how a Lightning address is generated is something we could explore further in various section. For example, we could have it as part of onboarding like Zebedee currently does. Likely will have to revisit these sections as the space evolves / standards get more solidified.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdrawal-qr.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdrawal-qr@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A withdrawal request is another way a user can request bitcoin."
   alt-text = "Screen showing withdraw request QR code."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "With withdrawal requests the user is “pulling” bitcoin from another users wallet."
   alt-text = "Screen showing withdraw request UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

The more payment request formats a wallet supports generating and receiving to, the more interoperable it will be. Some wallets may not support sending to a particular format so having several options makes it easier to request bitcoin.

## Sharing payment requests

> Once a user has generated a payment request the next action to take is sharing it with the sender. There are several ways in which this can be done. Supporting all methods of sharing across payment formats makes it easier for users to request bitcoin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once a user has generated a payment request, the next action is to share it with the sender. There are several ways to do this. Supporting all sharing methods across payment formats makes it easier for users to request bitcoin.
```

### Plaintext

> Sharing a payment request as plaintext involves simply copying & sharing it with a sender. It is typical for Bitcoin wallets to provide a share button that allows receivers to conveniently share a payment request in this manner. Both reusable and single-use requests should be shareable as plaintext.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sharing a payment request as plaintext involves simply copying & sharing it with a sender. It is typical for Bitcoin wallets to provide a share button that allows receivers to share a payment request in this manner conveniently. Both reusable and single-use requests should be shareable as plaintext.
```

> Sharing a payment request as plaintext involves simply copying & sharing it with a sender. It is typical for Bitcoin wallets to provide a share button that allows receivers to conveniently share a payment request in this manner. Both reusable and single-use requests should be shareable as plaintext.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sharing a payment request as plaintext involves simply copying and sharing it with a sender. It is typical for Bitcoin wallets to provide a share button that allows receivers to conveniently share a payment request in this manner. Both reusable and single-use requests should be shareable as plaintext.
```

### QR code

> QR codes are a common way in which payment requests are presented to senders. Any type of payment request can be converted into a QR for sharing with a sender. When generating QR codes in a wallet application, ensure they are large enough and have high contrast with the applications background so they can be easily scanned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
QR codes are a common way to present payment requests to senders. Any type of payment request can be converted into a QR for sharing with a sender. When generating QR codes in a wallet application, ensure they are large enough and have high contrast with the application's background to be easily scanned.
```

> It’s typical that QR codes be downloadable. For single-use requests this makes them easier to share over various mediums. For reusable requests, these QR codes can be displayed in places where payments are needed to be regularly sent, like a website's donation page for example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Typically, QR codes are downloadable. For single-use requests, this makes them easier to share over various mediums. For reusable requests, these QR codes can be displayed in places where payments must be regularly sent, like a website's donation page.
```

   alt-text = "Screen showing reusable QR code."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/payment-link.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/payment-link@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Payment links are encoded so they open directly in local bitcoin applications."
   alt-text = "Screen showing payment link UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contactless.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contactless@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Sharing a payment request contactless is a quick way to request a payment in-person."
   alt-text = "Screen showing contactless UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## Receiving a payment

Once a request has been shared, the sender then needs to send bitcoin to the request. We cover the design considerations and user flows for sending bitcoin in our [sending bitcoin]({{ "/guide/payments/send/" | relative_url }}) page.

### Lightning

> Receiving a Lightning payment is something that involves a lot of background complexity. How this is managed by a wallet application has a major impact on the end user's experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Receiving a Lightning payment is something that involves a lot of background complexity. How a wallet application manages this, has a major impact on the end user's experience.
```

> To receive a Lightning payment, the receiver needs a payment channel with inbound liquidity and also has to be online. Some wallets offer services that allow channels to be opened on-demand if a user has no inbound liquidity when an incoming payment is received. They may also hold a payment for a user until they are online to forward it to them. Both of these services require a wallet to be solely connected to the peer that offers these services. We cover what services are commonly offered and how they work on our Lightning services page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To receive a Lightning payment, the receiver needs a payment channel with inbound liquidity and also has to be online. Some wallets offer services that allow channels to be opened on-demand if a user has no inbound liquidity when receiving an incoming payment. They may also hold payment for a user until they are online to forward it to them. These services require a wallet to be solely connected to the peer that offers these services. We cover what services are commonly offered and how they work on our Lightning services page.
```

Without Lightning services, a user will need to obtain some inbound liquidity before receiving a Lightning payment. This can be done by opening a channel with a peer that offers inbound liquidity and/or sending payments moving outbound to inbound capacity. It is recommended to let users know if they do not have any inbound liquidity before they share a payment request to prevent a payment failure.

### On-chain

Receiving on-chain involves the sender broadcasting a transaction to the network for it to be confirmed. As on-chain transaction confirmation times vary based on network congestion and fees being paid, it is uncertain exactly when a transfer will be considered complete. Keep users informed of the state of their incoming transfers.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer: The title is "On-chain", but the images discuss Lightning liquidity?

Author: Those images are for the whole "Receiving a payment" section not just for the on-chain section. I'll make this more clear.

   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Home screens can provide quick access to entering request flows."
   alt-text = "Screen showing home screen number pad entry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Single-use payment requests are useful for in-person payments."
   alt-text = "Screen showing single-use invoice."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-profile.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-profile@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Reusable payment requests, like Lightning addresses, are useful for receiving recurring payments."
   alt-text = "Screen showing reusable Lightning address."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"

>    caption = "A withdraw request is another way a user can request bitcoin."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   caption = "A withdraw request is another way a user can receive bitcoin."
```
Reads funny to see "request" twice. Not sure if this is more clear.

### Amount

When generating a single-use payment request, the receiver may want to add an amount to be paid. Entering an amount from the home screen can speed up the requesting flow. Alternatively, users can add an amount to an already generated payment request. Entering an amount needs to be clear to prevent users entering incorrect amounts.

Amount units need to be toggleable between bitcoin, satoshi and local currency values as senders may request in a set unit. Ensure the unit being entered is prominent to prevent entering of the wrong unit amount. More on the [Units & Symbols page]({{ "/guide/payments/units-and-symbols/" | relative_url }}).

### Address types

> There are several address types that can be used for on-chain transfer requests. Each address type has unique benefits, such as SegWit saving on network fees. Supporting every address type makes a wallet more interoperable and lets users access the benefits offered by each type. More on the [address types]({{ "/guide/glossary/address/" | relative_url }}) page.

Reviewer: What do you think here about making a recommendation to use whatever the latest one is, but providing seamless backwards compatibility?

Author: Good suggestion, will add!

### Meta data

A payment request with only standard data like an amount and date communicates little to both parties about the payment. Users should have the option to attach a note for record-keeping and for the sender to read. Adding tags, labels and any other metadata that may be relevant to give more context to the payment is also beneficial.

#### Invoice expirations

> A piece of meta data unique to invoices is an expiration time. This is how long until a single-use invoice expires. By default this is 60 minutes. When an invoice is generated an expiration timer needs to be shown to users alongside the payment request. For more custom use cases, allowing users to adjust this expiration time manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A piece of meta data unique to invoices is an expiration time. This is how long until a single-use invoice expires. By default this is 60 minutes. When an invoice is generated an expiration timer needs to be shown to users alongside the payment request. For more custom use cases, allow users to adjust this expiration time manually.
```

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/Home.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/Home@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Home screens can speed up the generating of a single-use payment request."
   alt-text = "Screen showing home screen number pad entry."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-payment-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"

>    caption = "A newly generated single-use payment request."

Reviewer 4: I'm not convinced about the payment vs. transaction dichotomy. My thoughts are expressed [in much more detail here](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/issues/612#issuecomment-1013385394).

I see this dichotomy expressed in the images. Perhaps this is just a nit...it doesn't really affect the content of the page and we can always spend more time discussing this idea, then update images with a more consensus approach.
  
What would be a good distinction?

- Lightning vs. Bitcoin
- Payment vs. Transaction
- Off-chain vs. On-chain
- Instant vs. Slow
- Something else?

Author: Went with on-chain / Lightning for now - maybe we can figure something better out and come back to this.

   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-transaction-request-settings@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Let users configure the settings of the single-use transaction-request."
   alt-text = "Screen showing newly generated single-use transaction-request settings."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-type.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/single-use-address-type@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Supporting every address type benefits users and makes your wallet more interoperable."
   alt-text = "Screen showing different address types."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## Reusable payment requests

Reusable payment requests aren’t as widely adopted or used as their single-use counterparts. For some use cases, reusable payment requests offer an improved user experience, more flexibility, and enable unique use cases compared to single-use payment requests. Reusable payment requests avoids users from having to manually initiate a payment request each time they need to receive bitcoin, greatly simplifying payment flows.

> Reusable payment requests are common when making payments as they are made more frequently. So manually generating a payment request for each payment adds a lot of friction.

Reviewer: This sentence only makes sense if the user thinks of payments as frequent, low-amount transfers. However, this is not defined anywhere. Goes back the to payments/transactions discussion.

> [Lightning addresses](https://lightningaddress.com/) are a popular reusable way in which users request payments. These look like regular emails (jane@domain.com) but wallets that support sending to Lightning addresses can send payments to them. Receiving to a Lightning address requires users to generate their own unique Lightning address that can be shared with senders. Generating a Lightning address is often done within the users profile or during onboarding.

Reviewer: > wallets that support sending to Lightning addresses can send payments to them.

This can be simplified.

Should we indicate that Lightning addresses are not a native Lightning thing, but require some layers on top?

Reusable payment requests are not common when conducting transactions. This is due to them being conducted less frequently so the burden of generating a new payment request for each transfer is not as large. On-chain addresses are reusable, though as previously mentioned this has privacy implications so this practice is not recommended.

> Several, not widely supported, reusable payments request formats also exist. For Lightning, BOLT 12 offers, AMP invoices and Key sends using just a node ID exist. For on-chain, reusable payment codes [(BIP 47)](https://bips.xyz/47) or [xpubs]({{ "/guide/glossary/#extended-public-key-xpub-ypub-zpub" | relative_url }}) used to generate addresses can be reused to receive bitcoin transactions. Learn more about these on our [payment request formats]({{ "/guide/payments/send/payment-request-formats/" | relative_url }}) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several, not widely supported, reusable payments request formats also exist. For Lightning, there are BOLT 12 offers, AMP invoices and Key sends, which require just a node ID. For on-chain, there are reusable payment codes ([BIP 47](https://bips.xyz/47), use is discouraged) and [xpubs]({{ "/guide/glossary/#extended-public-key-xpub-ypub-zpub" | relative_url }}), which can be used to generate addresses for receiving bitcoin. Learn more about these on our [payment request formats]({{ "/guide/payments/send/payment-request-formats/" | relative_url }}) page.
```

Author: Why is BIP 47 discouraged?

   alt-text = "Screen showing generation of a Lightning address."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-profile.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/my-profile@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "A newly generated reusable Lightning address used to receive regular payments to."
   alt-text = "Screen showing newly generated Lightning address."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-list.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-list@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Contact lists are great for storing and managing reusable payment requests."
   alt-text = "Screen showing contact list."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-card.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-card@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Contact cards can store the users reusable payment requests."
   alt-text = "Screen showing users contact card."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

> {% include picture.html

Reviewer: Is this image included twice? Why does it read "John contact" at the top?

   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-card.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contact-card@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Contact cards can store reusable payment requests of other users too."
   alt-text = "Screen showing another users contact card."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## Withdrawal request

> Another way a user can request bitcoin is from a withdrawal request. A withdrawal request is a payment request that lets the receiver withdraw bitcoin from another user's wallet. Unlike previously mentioned payment requests, withdrawal requests are generated by the sender. These can be useful for merchants providing refunds to customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another way a user can request bitcoin is from a withdrawal request. A withdrawal request is a payment request that lets the receiver withdraw bitcoin from another wallet. Unlike previously mentioned payment requests, withdrawal requests are generated by the sender. These can be useful for merchants providing refunds to customers.
```
Removed `user`, as it could also be a merchant, a web service, etc.

   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/withdraw-request@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "With withdrawal requests the user is “pulling” bitcoin from another users wallet."
   alt-text = "Screen showing withdraw request UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

The more payment request formats a wallet supports generating and receiving to, the more interoperable it will be. Some wallets may not support sending to a particular format so having several options makes it easier to request bitcoin.

## Sharing payment requests

Once a user has generated a payment request the next action to take is sharing it with the sender. There are several ways in which this can be done. Supporting all methods of sharing across payment formats makes it easier for users to request bitcoin.

### Plaintext

Sharing a payment request as plaintext involves simply copying and sharing it with a sender. It is typical for Bitcoin wallets to provide a share button that allows receivers to share a payment request in this manner conveniently. Both reusable and single-use requests should be shareable as plaintext.

> ### QR code

Reviewer: How about moving `QR code` below `Payment link`, as the `QR code` is just a visual representation of `Plaintext` and `Payment link`?

   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/payment-link.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/payment-link@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Payment links are encoded so they open directly in local bitcoin applications."
   alt-text = "Screen showing payment link UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contactless.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/payments/request/contactless@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"
   caption = "Sharing a payment request contactless is a quick way to request a payment in-person."
   alt-text = "Screen showing contactless UI."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

</div>

## Receiving a payment

Once a request has been shared, the sender then needs to send bitcoin to the request. We cover the design considerations and user flows for sending bitcoin in our [sending bitcoin]({{ "/guide/payments/send/" | relative_url }}) page.

### Lightning

Receiving a payment is something that involves a lot of background complexity. How a wallet application manages this, has a major impact on the end user's experience.

> To receive a payment, the receiver needs a payment channel with inbound liquidity and also has to be online. Some wallets offer services that allow channels to be opened on-demand if a user has no inbound liquidity when receiving an incoming payment. They may also hold payment for a user until they are online to forward it to them. These services require a wallet to be solely connected to the peer that offers these services. We cover what services are commonly offered and how they work on our Lightning services page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To receive a payment, the receiver needs a payment channel with inbound liquidity and also has to be online. Some wallets offer services that allow channels to be opened on-demand if a user has no inbound liquidity when receiving an incoming payment. They may also hold payments for a user until they are online to forward it to them. These services require a wallet to be solely connected to the peer that offers these services. We cover what services are commonly offered and how they work on our Lightning services page.
```

Without Lightning services, a user will need to obtain some inbound liquidity before receiving a payment. This can be done by opening a channel with a peer that offers inbound liquidity and/or sending payments moving outbound to inbound capacity. It is recommended to let users know if they do not have any inbound liquidity before they share a payment request to prevent a payment failure.

<div class="image-slide-gallery">

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/opening-channel.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/opening-channel@2x.png.png"
   layout = "shadow"

>    caption = "Using Lightning services, a channel can be opened on-demand if their is no inbound liquidity when a payment is received."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   caption = "Using Lightning services, a channel can be opened on-demand if there is no inbound liquidity when a payment is received."
```

   alt-text = "Screen showing channel being opened."
   width = 250
   height = 541
%}

{% include picture.html
   image = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/channel-opened.png"
   retina = "/assets/images/guide/onboarding/funding-a-wallet/channel-opened@2x.png"
   layout = "shadow"

>    caption = "Indicate to users if they have no inbound liquidity they should get some before requesting a payment."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   caption = "Indicate to users that, if they have no inbound liquidity, they should get some before requesting a payment."
```
